.\" see groff_man for syntax.
.TH Amalgam 7 "2025" "Amalgam Manual pages" "Miscellaneous Information Manual" 
.SH NAME
amalgam \- Configurable error strategies with respect to build mode.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBAmalgam\fP is a library that provides error handling strategies and
.br
parsing of compile time feature request macros to define the
.br
current build mode, to make it easy to configure the behavior of
.br
the error handling strategies behavior in a uniform fashion with
.br
respect to build mode. 
.PP
The motivation behind, is to have error handling strategies that
.br
behaves according to the current build mode, so that we can define
.br
the build mode to get the wanted behavior of the error handling
.br
strategies.
.SS "Error handling strategies that \fBAmalgam\fP supports"
.PP
\fBAmalgam\fP supports several ways to check for errors, namely by
.br
.BI assertions "" ,
.BI "happy path" "" ,
and a 
.BI "fail fast"
strategy.
.PP
In addition it comes with an \fBException\fP module letting you create
.br
your own exceptions, but this is totally agnostic to build modes,
.br
so here you will need to implement everything build\-type wise
.br
on your own, but you can leverage upon the predefined build mode
.br
constants.
.TP
\fIla_assert.h(3)\fP \-\-\ assertions like normal assertions, in \fBLA_DEV\fP, but
.br
now
they will
launch \fBgdb\fP if an assertion fails in a \fBLA_DBG\fP
.br
build, and
print a user\-friendly message in a \fBLA_REL\fP build.
.IP
This library enables you to keep your assertions active in
.br
release builds, so you can release uncompromised hardened
.br
code.
.TP 
\fIla_happypath.h(3)\fP standardizes the way of checking function return
.br
codes for errors and \fBerrno\fP after function/system calls, and
.br
provides a
nice call stack run\-time in \fBLA_DEV\fP build.
.TP 
\fIla_failfast.h(3)\fP are wrappers around regular system calls like
.br
\fImalloc(3)\fP, and \fIprintf(3)\fP functions that prints an error
.br
message to the console and dies, if a run\-time error happens,
.br
providing the same level
of information as \fIperror(3)\fP but can
.br
be utilized to return the \fBERROR\fP string constant (\fBERR_SYM\fP)
.br
e.g. \fBEIO\fP
as specified on the man page for the library
.br
or system call.
.IP
The \fBERR_SYM\fP can vary from platform to platform see: \fBNOTES\fP.
.SS "The different build modes"
.TP
\fBLA_DBG\fP \-\- Debug mode used for inspecing runtime bugs in Gdb. 
.TP
\fBLA_DEV\fP \-\- Development mode for mimicking standard behavor runtime.
.TP
\fBLA_REL\fP \-\- Release mode gives a user friendly  message to end users.
.SS "Error messages can include an error symbol (\fBERR_SYM\fP) as in Man pages"
.TP
More precise error messages in \fBdev builds\fP
.br
\fBAmalgam\fP can also provide more detail in error messages than
.br
.BI perror(3)
because we can get the string constant (\fBERR_SYM\fP) for the
.br
error number  that is referred to in the manual page for the
.br
function, like \fBEIO\fP is listed as an error code in the manual page
.br
for 
.BI read(2)
so that we can simply read the explanation for the
.br
error code in the manual page.
.IP
Being able to relate the \fBERR_SYM\fP from the error message to the
.br
error description in the function's man page may help under\-
.br
standing the problem when the error description returned by
.br
.BI perror(3)
or
.BI strerror(3)
is difficult to relate to the \fBerror\fP
.br
\fBsymbols\fP in the man page of the function.
.TP
One general error message to end user in \fBrelease builds\fP
.br
Using one standard error message in \fBLA_REL\fP mode for runtime errors
.br
isn't only more user\-friendly, but also makes your program at least
.br
a little bit more difficult to exploit, hiding cause, filename and
.br
line\-number.
.TP
Launching \fBGdb\fP directly upon a run\-time error in \fBdebug builds\fP 
.br
This lets you inspect variables and the call stack directly
.br
which is a time saver during debugging.
.SS "Additional interfaces provided, intrinsic to the library: 
.TP
\fIla_buildmode.h(3)\fP \-\- A public interface for parsing buildmodes
.TP
\fIla_releasemsg.h(3)\fP \-\- configuring a release error message:
.TP
\fIla_exception.h(3)\fP \-\- implementing your own exceptions:
.TP
\fIla_syserr.h(3)\fP  \-\- returning OS constant for \fBerrno\fP.
.SH NOTES
.BI amalgam.h
must always be included, header files for the separate
.br
interfaces can be included for convenience as it is easier to see
.br
the function declarations in the module then.
.PP
In order to get correct \fBERR_SYM\fP returned from \fIla_syserr.h\fP for a platform 
.br
other than Linux, you can use one of the following
platform identifers
.br
on the \fBGcc\fP command line (\fB\-D...\fP) when building the library:
.BI BSD,
.br
.BI BSD_DERIVED,
.BI DARWIN,
.BI FREEBSD,
.BI SOLARIS.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BI amalgam.h(3)
.BI la_assert.h(3)
.BI la_happypath.h(3)
.BI la_failfast.h(3)
.br
.BI la_buildmode.h(3)
.BI la_releasemsg.h(3)
.BI la_exception.h(3)
.BI la_syserr.h(3)
.SH AUTHORS AND SOURCES
Mark J.Rochkind Advanced Unix Programming 2nd edition.
.br
David R. Hanson "C Interfaces and Applications"
.br
Brian W. Kernighan and Robert Pike "The Practice of Programming."
.br
Andrew G. Morgan Source code for making executable libraries.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Mark J.Rochkind April 2004-2025
.br
David R. Hanson 1996-2025
.br
Brian W. Kernighan and Robert Pike 1999-2025
.br
Andrew G. Morgan <morgan@kernel.org> 2021-205
.br
Tommy Bollman 2025 Mit License.

.\" vim: nospell
