.\" see groff_man for syntax.
.TH la_progname 3  "2025" "libamalgam" "Library Functions Manual"
.SH NAME
la_freegeneralerrormsg, la_freeprogname, la_generalerrormsg,
.br
la_progname, la_progversion, la_setgeneralerrormsg,
la_setprogname,
.br
la_setprogversion
.SH LIBRARY
Configurable error handling stragegies with respect to build mode.
.br
\fB(libamalgam -lamalgam)\fP
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI #include\ <amalgam.h>
.br
or
.br
.BI #include\ <amalgam.h>
.br
.BI #include\ <la_programinfo.h>
.nf
.PP
.BI "void la_freegeneralerrormsg();"
.BI "void la_freeprogname\fP();"
.BI "char *la_generalerrormsg();"
.BI "char *la_progname();"	
.BI "char *la_progversion();"
.BI "void la_setgeneralerrormsg( char *" s " );"
.BI "void la_setprogname(const char *" fallbackname ", const char *" argv_null
.BI "            ,const int " nrargs ", const _Bool " instfreehandler " );"
.BI "void la_setprogversion( char *" versionstr " );"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The function
.BR la_freegeneralerrormsg ()
can be installed with
.br
.BR atexit (3)
so that the allocated memory for the general error
.br
\-message can be freed upon exit. (See \fBNOTES\fP.)
.PP
The function
.BR la_freeprogname ()
can be installed with
.BR atexit (3)
so
.br
that the allocated memory for the program name can be freed upon
.br
exit. (See \fBNOTES\fP.)
.PP
The function
.BR la_generalerrormsg ()
returns a pointer to the set
.br
release build (
.BR LA_REL
)
error message, run\-time.
.PP
The function
.BR la_progname ()
returns a pointer to the set program
.br
name.
.PP
The function
.BR la_progversion ()
returns a pointer to the set version
.br
string (triplet) which is a string constant, so no free function
.br
is needed.
.PP
The function
.BR la_setgeneralerrormsg ()
Sets one general error message
.br
for the various error handling strategies to use in  
release builds
.br
(
.BR LA_REL
).
.PP
The function
.BR la_setprogname ()
sets the program name, it needs a
.br
fallback name for the case that \fBargv[0]\fP isn't set.
.PP
The function
.BR la_setprogversion ()
sets the version triplet for the
.br
program.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The
.BR la_generalerrormsg (),
.BR la_progname (),
and 
.BR la_progversion ()
.br
returns pointers to respective strings.
.br
.BR la_progversion ()
return
.BR NULL
if a version string (triplet) isn't
.br
specified.
.SH ERRORS
The functions
.BR la_setgeneralerrormsg (),
and
.BR la_setprogname ()
fails by
.br 
exiting the program with an error message when fed \fBNULL\fP pointers.
.br
No function "fails" and sets
.IR errno .
.br
.BR la_progversion ()
returns \fBNULL\fP if no version string (triplet) is set.
.SH ATTRIBUTES
For an explanation of the terms used in this section, see
.BR attributes (7).
.PP
The functions 
.BR la_freegeneralerrormsg (),
.BR la_freeprogname (),
.br
.BR la_setgeneralerrormsg (),
and
.BR la_setprogname (),
are all MT-Unsafe.
.br
Not safe to use in Multi\-threaded programs.
.SH NOTES
.BI amalgam.h
must always be included, header files for the separate
.br
interfaces can be included for convenience as it is easier to see
.br
the function declarations in the module then.
.PP
The \fBfree\fP routines are installed by the \fBset\fP functions, but are
.br
provided for cases the programs exits either through a signal
.br
\-handler, or
.BI _exit (3)
or
.BI _Exit (3)
functions or system calls.
.br
Normally the the \fBfree\fP functions don't need to be called manually.
.SH SEE ALSO
amalgam(7), amalgam.h(3), la_buildmode.h(3) 
.SH AUTHOR
Idea by Rob Pike and B.W. Kernighan in "Practice of Programming".
.\" TODO: really work out the rouitines into syserr.h, so everything is there.
.\" vim: nospell
