.\" see groff_man for syntax.
.TH LABUILDMODE.H 3 "2025" "libamalgam" "Library Functions Manual"
.SH NAME
labuildmode.h \-\- Detection of current build mode with respect to
.br
.BI buildmode
specified on the command line during build.
.br
It is used by the 
.BI error
.BI handling
.BI strategies
in
.BI libmamalgam.
.br
It can be utiized for own uses with regards to differing between
.br
buildmodes but you need to use the same feature request macros.
.SH LIBRARY
Development C library
.RI  ( libamalgam ", " \-lamalgam )
.SH SYNOPSIS
.BI #include\ <amalgam.h>
.br
or
.br
.BI #include\ <labuildmode.h>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.BI labuildmode.h
lets you configure the build mode of your program compile
.br
time which your program can probe through the function
.BI LA_buildmode()
.br
in
.BI libamalgam.
.PP
You specify one of the feature request macros:
.BI LA_DBG,
.BI LA_DEV,
or
.br
.BI LA_REL
on the 
.BR gcc
command
line, which configures the build mode of
.br
the program.
.PP
The default
.BI build
.BI type
is
.BI LA_DEV
if no feature request macro is
.br
specified compile-time (
.BR ex:
.BI \-DLA_REL
).
.SH DETAILS
.PP
Macro definition to instigate parsing of build mode from within client
.br program.
.IP
.BR Important!
.IP
Only use  one of  the two macros below in one source\-file meaning that
.br
you GET the buildmode in e.g. \fBmain.c\fP, and USE it in other modules.
.IP
.RI #define " "  LA_BUILDMODE_GET
.IP
.RI #define " "  LA_BUILDMODE_GET 
to  get the defined buildmode
in some
.br
C\-file before
including 
.BI amalgam.h(3)
or
.BI labuildmode.h(3)
that is 
.br
compiled with the relevant feature request macro on the
.BI gcc
.br
command line and linked
into your program in the
link phase.
.IP
.RI #define " "  LA_BUILDMODE_USE
.IP
.RI #define " "  LA_BUILDMODE_USE
to get the defined buildmode in C\-files
.br
that call 
.RI la_buildmode()
before including
.RI amalgam.h(3)
or
.br
.RI labuildmode.h(3).
Do this for every module that calls
.br
\fBla_buildmode()\fP
.PP
Feature request macros that can be set on the
.BI gcc
commandline:
.IP
.BI LA_REL
sets build mode to release.
.IP
.BI LA_DEV
sets build mode to dev, which is the normal behavior
.br
you normally expect during development. (Default value.)
.IP
.BI LA_DBG
sets build mode to debug, which automatically lanuches
.br
.BI Gdb
when a run-time error occurs or an assertion breaks.
.PP
Datatype for build mode:
.IP
.RI typedef " " enum " " { " " LA__REL=0 "" ", " "" LA__DEV=1 "" ", " "" LA__DBG=2 " " } " " LA_BuildMode "" ;
.br
These are the values that
.BI la_buildmode()
returns to identify
.br
the
build mode to the client program.
.PP
\fBFunctions declared by this interface\fP
.IP
.RI LA_BuildMode " " la_buildmode(void) "" ;
.br
Returns the current compiled buildmode to the client program
.br
run time as a 
.IB LA_BuildMode
value.
.IP
.RI void " " la_prbuildmode(void) "" ;
.br
Prints the current build mode to "\fIstdout\fP" \-\- for debugging
.br
purposes.
.SH ERRORS
You will get a linker error link time if you have forgotten to 
.br
.RI #define " "  LA_BUILDMODE_GET
before
.BI #include\ <amalgam.h>
.br
or
.BI #include\ <labuildmode.h>
in some C\-file that is compiled with the
.br
relevant feature request macro and linked into
your  program.
.SH SEE ALSO
amalgam(7), amalgam.h(3)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Tommy Bollman 2025 Mit Licence.
.\" vim: nospell
